Updated docs for changes to progress calculation (% complete) (#15201)
opf/openproject: docs/user-guide/time-and-costs/progress-tracking/README.md

| **Old term**   	 | **New term**   	      |
|--------------------|------------------------|
| Progress       	 | %&nbsp;Complete	      |
| Estimated time 	 | Work           	      |
| Remaining time 	 | Remaining work 	      |

>**Note**: You will still find the new attributes if you search using their older names (in the list of filters, for example).

## Progress reporting modes

OpenProject offers two modes for reporting progress:

- **Work-based progress reporting** enables you to automatically derive progress based on the values you enter for Work and Remaining work
- **Status-based progress reporting** allows you to assign fixed % Complete values to statuses, and automatically derive Remaining work based on the values for Work you can enter

>**Note:** The administrator of your instance will have selected a mode for the entire instance. If you are an administrator, you can modify this by following our [admin guide on work package settings](../../../system-admin-guide/manage-work-packages/work-package-settings).

### Work-based progress reporting

> %&nbsp;Complete is an automatically calculated value that is a function of Work and Remaining work (unless %&nbsp;Complete is configured to be [set by status](#status-based-progress-reporting).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
%&nbsp;Complete is an automatically calculated value that is a function of Work and Remaining work (unless %&nbsp;Complete is configured to be [set by status](#status-based-progress-reporting)).
```
Missing closing paren. 
Could also be rewritten without parens and just a comma.

Author: Fixed, with a comma.

>**%&nbsp;Complete** is work done (**Work** - **Remaining work**) divided by **Work**, expressed as a percentage. For example, if Work is set at 50h and Remaining work is 30h, this means that %&nbsp;Complete is _(50h-30h)/50h))_ = **40%**. Please note that these calculations are independent and unrelated to the value of **Spent time** (which is based on actual time logged). 

This means that for a work package to have a value for %&nbsp;Complete, both Work and Remaining work are required to be set. To make this link clear and transparent, clicking on any of the three values to modify them will display the following pop-over:

**[IMG: Work-based progress reporting]**

This allows you to edit Work or Remaining work and get a preview of the updated %&nbsp;Complete value before saving changes. Changing any one field will automatically update the other two.

> >**Note:** If you enter a value for Remaining work that is higher than Work, you will see an error message telling you that this is not possible. You will have to enter a value lower than work to be able to save the new value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Note:** If you enter a value for Remaining work that is higher than Work, you will see an error message telling you that this is not possible. You will have to enter a value lower than Work to be able to save the new value.
```

Author: Fixed manually, thanks.

>
>Additionally, the value for Remaining work cannot be removed if a value for Work exists. If you wish to unset Remaining work, you need to also unset Work. 

### Status-based progress reporting

Administrators can also switch to [status-based progress reporting mode](../../../system-admin-guide/manage-work-packages/work-package-settings/) for their instance. 

> In this mode, each status is associated with a fixed %&nbsp;Complete value in the [admin settings for each one]((../../../system-admin-guide/manage-work-packages/work-package-status/)), which can be freely updated by changing the status of a work package. This allows teams to report progress simply by changing the status of their work packages over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this mode, each status is associated with a fixed %&nbsp;Complete value in the [admin settings for each one](../../../system-admin-guide/manage-work-packages/work-package-status/), which can be freely updated by changing the status of a work package. This allows teams to report progress simply by changing the status of their work packages over time.
```

Removed extra ()

> For example, "New" could be set to 0%, "In progress" to 30%, "In test" to 60% and "Implemented" to 100%. Then, as project members update the status, the %&nbsp;Complete values would reflect these changes automatically.

Unlike in work-based progress reporting mode, in status-based mode, Remaining work is an automatically calculated value that cannot be manually edited.

>**Remaining work** is **Work** times **(100% - %&nbsp;Complete)**, expressed in hours. For example, if the %&nbsp;Complete for a selected status is 25% and Work is 20h, Remaining work is automatically set to 15h.

> In Status-based progress reporting mode, Work is not a required value. However, if Work is set, Remaining work is automatically calculated. To make this link clear and transparent, clicking on any of the three values to modify them will display the following pop-over:

Reviewer: Actually, clicking on Remaining work or % Complete field will do nothing because they are read-only. Only clicking on Work will display the popover.

Author: Fixed manually.

**[IMG: Status-based progress reporting]**

> This allows you to edit %&nbsp;Complete (by changing status) or Work and get a preview of the updated Remaining work before saving changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows you to edit either %&nbsp;Complete by changing status, or Work, and get a preview of the updated Remaining work before saving changes.
```

I don't like parens :)

Regarding [preview](https://community.openproject.org/projects/openproject/work_packages/54275/activity), so far it's not part of 14.0 yet.

Author: Ignoring this particular suggestion since it doesn't read as easily (paranthesis help here), but appreciate the suggestion :) Any change it will be? (I'll leave it for now)

> >**Note:** In the upcoming version, statuses cannot have an empty %&nbsp;Complete values in status-based progress reporting mode.When upgrading, all statuses that do not have a value will take the default value of 0%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Note:** In the upcoming version, statuses cannot have an empty %&nbsp;Complete value in status-based progress reporting mode. When upgrading, all statuses that do not have a value will take the default value of 0%.
```

Author: Fixed manually, thanks.

## Hierarchy totals

> OpenProject will automatically show totals for Work, Remaining work and % Complete in a work package hierarchy (any parent with children). These appears in a work package table as a number with a Σ sign next to it, indicating that it is a sum of the values of the parent _and_ children.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenProject will automatically show totals for Work, Remaining work and % Complete in a work package hierarchy (any parent with children). These appear in a work package table as a number with a Σ sign next to it, indicating that it is a sum of the values of the parent _and_ children.
```

Author: Fixed manually, thanks.

**[IMG: Hierarchy example]**

> > **Note**: The total %&nbsp;Complete value of a hierarchy is a weighted average tied to Work. For example, a feature with Work set to 50h that is 30% done will advance the sum of %&nbsp;Complete of the parent more than a feature with Work set to 5h that is 70% done. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: The total %&nbsp;Complete value of a hierarchy is a weighted average tied to Work. For example, a feature with Work set to 50h that is 30% done will influence the sum of %&nbsp;Complete of the parent more than a feature with Work set to 5h that is 70% done. 
```

Author: Fixed, thanks.

### Excluding certain work packages from totals

In some cases, you might want to exclude certain work packages (like those with status *rejected*) from sum calculations of the parent. Administrators can define these exclusions by going to the [Administration settings for any status] and check a new option called "Exclude from calculation of totals in hierarchy". All work packages with this status will then be excluded when calculating the sum value for the parent (for all fields: Work, Remaining work and %&nbsp;Complete).

A small info icon will appear next to excluded values to remind you of this fact:

> **[IMG: Excluded work packages warning]**

Reviewer: Excluding statuses is not available in 14.0

Reviewer: And we should talk about "total calculations" rather than "sum calculations" as total is the term we use in our app.

Author: Replaced the words "sum" with "total", thanks.

Author: And commented out the excluded statuses bit for now.

## Changing modes 

> When an administrator changes modes from Status-based or Work-based or vice-versa, the % Complete values might be in a "transitional stage". 

Reviewer: Actually, only when changing from work based to status based:
- when changing from work-based to status-based, % complete is applied and remaining work is derived;
- when changing from status-based to work-based, nothing changes as the values are already consistent, so there is no "transitional stage".

Author: Rephrased and reorganised, thanks.

## Status- to work-based

In Status-based mode, it is possible for work packages to have a %&nbsp;Complete value (defined by the status) without having values for Work or Remaining work. In other words, the Work and Remaining work can be empty. 

> However, when switching to work-based mode, work packages with a %&nbsp;Complete value also need to have values for Work and Remaining work (since the %&nbsp;Complete is not directly editable but is rather derived from the other two values). 
> 
> In this case, OpenProject will retain the original value for %&nbsp;Complete that was there mode change, but will not allow you to edit it. Instead, you will be able to input Work and Remaining work, thereby overwriting the previous value with a new computed value:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When switching to Work-based mode, OpenProject will retain the value for %&nbsp;Complete that was set with status. It can then be modified by inputing Work and Remaining work, thereby overwriting the previous value with a new computed value:
```

I found the initial text too complicated to read.

If you do not retain this text, then there are some missing words in "that was there mode change". It does not sound correct to me.

Author: Retained! Thanks.
